24th Sunday OT C

Many of us assume that the Parable of the Prodigal Son is about ... well ... the prodigal son. But in truth, this story is about the Father. About his love for and forgiveness of his wayward son.

I imagine a few of you have read Ernest Hemingway's short story titled, "The Capital of the World." There's one particular scene in particular that I'd like to share with you.

In the story, a Spanish newspaper ran an article about a teen-aged boy named Paco and his very wealthy father who had a falling out, it was such a falling out that the young man ran away from home. The father was crushed, but figured his son would be home soon. After a few days, however, he realized that his boy was serious and wasn't coming back. So the father set out to find him. He searched high and low for months on end to no avail. Finally, in a last, desperate attempt to find his son, the father put an ad in the local newspaper. The ad read, “Dear Paco, Meet me at the Hotel Montana noon Tuesday. All is forgiven. I love you. Signed, Your Father."

That Tuesday, in the lobby of Hotel Montana, the story recounts that over 800 Pacos showed up, looking for love and forgiveness from their fathers. 800.

Hemingway wrote this sometime in the 1930's, almost 100 years ago. And how relevant it still is for us today. How relevant the Parable of the Prodigal son is today.

100 years ago Hemingway was able to see the importance of Love and Forgiveness in the life of a child. How much more necessary and important is love and forgiveness today, when anxiety and depression in the population, especially among the youth, is skyrocketing?

This is why this parable isn't about the son, I mean, sure, he represents each of us whenever we turn from God. But it's much more about the love and forgiveness that God, our Father, shows to us when we go and squander our inheritance.

Some of us see ourselves primarily in the elder son, remaining faithful to the father, being obedient, checking all the boxes of what it means to be a good child -- and we struggle to forgive. Others of us see ourselves more in the prodigal son, maybe even seeing him as a role model, going off whenever we please, squandering our inheritance, and coming back for forgiveness time and time again.

The thing is, though, that both sons need that love and mercy that their father offers. We need that love and mercy that our Father offers. And when we seek for it and find it, the only thing that the Father asks of us in return, is to go and do likewise. Emulating him in his love, and in his forgiveness.

Forgiveness is no easy task. At least, not at first. But the more we forgive, the easier it becomes.

It's important to remember, though, that forgiving someone, someone that's hurt us, isn't for them. It's for us. It's for you. The calm and peace, the weight that gets lifted off of us when we forgive is something that words can't really capture. And yet still, it's hard, but it's good.

My brothers and sisters, the Parable of the Prodigal Son is still very relevant today. Each of us has fallen short of the Glory of God. Each of us has wronged and been wronged. And still, God calls us to forgive; just as he has forgiven us.
